in this video we're going to talk about
how to be disciplined without being
disciplined my name is Joe Hudson I'm a
former venture capitalist and now I
coach some of the most notable names in
Silicon Valley so here's the thing if
you're watching this video it means that
you are struggling with discipline if
you didn't struggle with discipline you
wouldn't click on this you would be out
there running or doing whatever
disciplined people do however I was
never that person and so for me finding
discipline was the art of figuring out
how not to be disciplined to be
disciplined so I want to share that with
you so here are three ways to help you
be disciplined without being disciplined
so the first one is focus on the pain
sounds strange but it's true the second
one is avoid decision fatigue and the
third is find a substitute all right
let's get into it what do I mean by
focusing on the pain how much discipline
does it take you to drop a hot frying
pan after you grab it it doesn't take
any because immediately your body knows
that it's painful but often times when
we're doing something that we don't want
to be doing like a bad habit we're doing
everything we can not to feel the pain
we're not feeling the pain of the
pornography or the drug addiction or
we're not feeling the pain of the lying
or we're not feeling the pain of
gossiping so let's say you've always
wanted to be disciplined about working
out how often are you in touch with the
pain of being
sedentary right so every day when you
work out you feel a little bit better
every day you don't work out you don't
feel a little bit better how often are
you in touch with that so if you slow
down the process and really feel the
pain of it not tell yourself you need to
change that doesn't work hasn't worked
for a decade probably isn't going to
work for the next decade but actually
feel the hot frying pan of the thing and
if you can really feel that and sit with
that enough you're going to be like Oh
I'm going to go work
out so here's a great story about this I
had a friend who was constantly
overeating and he was overeating because
eating a lot somehow made him feel a
little bit more settled so there was
something he was getting out of it but
it also made him feel bloated and bad
and so he decided what he was going to
do is every time he overate he was going
to sit silently for 10 minutes and just
feel the bloating just feel the pain of
overeating he was never going to tell
himself not to do it he wasn't going to
tell himself to eat less he was just
going to feel the sensation and over
time and not that much time but over
time he stopped overeating because he
knew how much it hurt him
and it was just as simple as that it was
just bringing awareness to the pain and
that makes it so that you don't have to
be disciplined you just drop the hot
frying
pan the second one is avoid decision
fatigue now there's this great study
that was done where they take little
kids and they say hey here's a
marshmallow but if you don't eat it for
10 minutes you'll get two marshmallows
and the psychologist who did this say
that this is one of the best markers for
future success a person who doesn't need
to immediately be gratified who can
delay gratification are much more likely
to be successful in life but the thing
that's really interesting is if you
watch those kids in their marshmallows
the ones who are
successful look away from the
marshmallow they don't sit there and go
should I eat it should I not eat it
should I eat it should I not eat it they
go oh I'm just going to go away I'm
going to just look at something else I'm
going to distract myself from it so that
I don't have to make that decision
so if you have decision fatigue let's
say you don't want to play video games
as much but your Xbox is always out it's
always in front of you then every time
you look at it you have a decision to
make am I going to use it or am I not
going to use it and eventually you're
going to say use it and then you're
probably going to beat yourself up and
then you're probably going to think how
bad you are and then you're going to
keep on playing video games so you don't
have to think about how bad you are blah
blah blah and off it goes the other
thing to do is just like give your
controller to your girlfriend or put
your controller to miles away hidden
under a tree so you have to go run over
to get the controller so you don't have
to make the decision so it's setting up
a life where you don't have to be
disciplined because you don't have the
choice the Third Way of having
disciplined by not having discipline is
find a replacement so what do I mean by
that everything that you're doing
satisfies you in some way not working
out satisfies you in some way drinking
coffee satisfies you in some way playing
video games satisfies you in some way
it's giving you something maybe the
video games is giving you a distraction
from a deeper pain maybe drinking coffee
gives you energy maybe not working out
makes it so that you don't beat yourself
up for not working out enough when you
go to the gym there's always something
that what you're doing is giving to you
and the idea behind find a replacement
is to look at what it's giving you
honestly really take a look at it does a
cigarette give you like a little relief
a break does the video game allow you to
just forget about your problems for a
while whatever it is and then find a
replacement that you can do that gives
you the same thing but in a more healthy
way so for instance if you ride horses
you're also going to not be able to
think about anything else when you're on
the horse so that could be like a video
game replacement or golf or pickle ball
any kind of exercise that is competitive
look for something else that you can do
that gives you that same break and when
you find that thing make sure it's
something that you enjoy doing so it
doesn't take any discipline to do
nobody says oh my God I got to be
disciplined I really have to play more
video games right like I got to play
video games harder and more because I
need more discipline the things that are
enjoyable to do you can do and they can
give you the same thing and they can be
good for you and that's the trick is to
find those enjoyable Replacements so
those are three ways you can have
discipline without having discipline but
there are other ways as well and the
thing that's really critical to finding
those ways is to not shame yourself when
you shame yourself and tell yourself
you're bad because you didn't live up to
the idea of discipline in your head all
it does is create this vicious cycle
where you feel bad and then you continue
to do the thing so that you can avoid
feeling bad so that you can feel bad so
you can continue doing the thing so the
thing to do is to really be gentle with
yourself and the more gentle you can be
with yourself and the more you can look
around and say what are other options
besides telling myself I should be
disciplined the more you can find the
Alternatives that get you the life that
you want without having to be really
hard on yourself and be really really
disciplined so if you like this video
feel free to subscribe or write down in
the comments other videos that you want
us to make and of course you can watch
the next video